				The Terminal Setup

ELinks uses neither (n)curses nor termcap/terminfo, so unless you are using a
terminal that is known by ELinks and have a built-in configuration (see below
for a list), it might be required that you do a little configuring of how your
terminal should be handled. The easiest way to do this is using the Terminal
Options dialog located in the Setup submenu of the Main menu.

It is possible to have configurations for multiple terminals as long as the
TERM environment variable -- used to distinguish terminals from one another --
is set to something different for each terminal. So be sure to set TERM to
different values for two terminals that cannot share the same configuration.
For example, always setting TERM to xterm-color can lead to problems if you run
ELinks under the Linux console. This is because the Linux console does not
support underlining and ELinks will not know that underlined characters will
have to be color highlighted so they stand out.

In short, ELinks does not use termcap or terminfo. ELinks uses $TERM, but only
to distinguish between terminals in its own configuration. That is, you need
only configure your terminal within ELinks: Go to the Setup menu and select
Terminal Options. If $TERM is set to 'screen' when you configure ELinks'
terminal settings, ELinks will remember to use those settings when $TERM is
'screen'.


Options
~~~~~~~

For each terminal the following options can be configured:

	Terminal type: (multi-state; default assumes dumb terminal/ASCII art)

		It maps roughly to the terminal type, such as Linux console,
		XTerm, VT100 etc. It matters mostly when drawing frames and
		borders around dialog windows. As already mentioned, it also
		turns on certain features which try to compensate for
		``missing'' terminal capabilities when drawing. Special
		highlighting of underlined text if underlining is not
		supported is one such thing.

	Color mode (multi-state, default is mono mode)

		The color mode controls what colors are used and how they are
		output to the terminal. The available color modes are:

                mono mode:	only 2 colors are used
		16 color mode:	uses the common ANSI colors
		256 color mode:	uses XTerm RGB codes (if compiled in)

	Switch fonts for line drawing (aka 11m hack) (boolean, off by default)

		This is related to the drawing of frames and window borders
		controlled by the option above. It controls whether to switch
		fonts when drawing lines, enabling both local characters and
		lines working at the same time.

		Makes sense only with Linux terminal.

	Restrict frames in cp850/852 (boolean, default is off)

		This is related to the drawing of frames and window borders
		controlled by the option above. If enabled, it restricts the
		characters used when drawing lines.

		Makes sense only with Linux terminals using the cp850/852
		character sets.

	Block cursor (boolean, off by default)

		Move cursor to bottom right corner when done drawing if
		possible. This is particularly useful when we have a block
		cursor, so that text colors are displayed correctly. If you
		are using a screen reader you do not want to enable it since
		the cursor is strategically positioned near relevant text of
		selected dialog elements.

	Transparency (boolean, on by default)

		Whether to set the background to black. This is particularly
		useful when using a terminal (typically in some windowing
		environment) with a background image or a transparent
		background. If this option is enabled the background will be
		visible in ELinks as well.

		Note that this option makes sense only when colors are
		enabled.

	Text underlining capability (bollean, by default off)

		Whether to underline text or enhance the color instead.

		Note: not all terminals support text underlining.

	UTF-8 I/O (boolean, off by default)

		Controls outputting of I/O in UTF-8 for Unicode terminals.

		Note that currently, only the subset of UTF-8 according to
		terminal codepage is used.

	Character Set (default is to use the charset of the current locale)

		Codepage of the charset used for displaying content on
		terminal.

		The value 'System' (which is the default) will set the
		charset according to the current locale.

Apart from the last one configurable through the Setup -> Character Set
submenu in the Main menu, the rest can be configured using the Terminal Options
dialog.


Terminal Configurations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Built-in configurations exists for the following terminals:

	linux, vt100, vt110, xterm, xterm-color and xterm-256color

The last configuration requires that support for 256 is compiled in.

GNU Screen is VT100-compatible, so select 'VT 100 frames'. GNU Screen also
supports colors just fine, so select '16 colors'; or if you are running
Screen within a terminal emulator that supports 256 colors and you have
compiled both Screen and ELinks to support it, choose '256 colors'.
